update releases page for 1.0 with new compatibility policy (#9068)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/getting-started/releases.mdx

---
title: Releases and Compatibility | Dagster
---

# Releases and Compability

We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) for compatibility between Dagster releases.

> ## Dagster core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Dagster core
```
[1]
Adding a horizontal rule to visually separate sections. I've started doing this in other places, and it makes a big difference in lengthier content. Noting it here for consistency.

> Dagster's public, stable APIs will not break within any major release. I.e. if a public, stable API exists in Dagster 1.x.y, upgrading to 1.(x+1).y or 1.x.(y+1) should not result in broken code. If a version does break your code, please help us out by filing an issue on [Github](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagster's public, stable APIs will not break within any major release. I.e. if a public, stable API exists in Dagster 1.x.y, upgrading to 1.(x+1).y or 1.x.(y+1) should not result in broken code. If a version does break your code, help us out by filing an issue on [Github](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues)
```

Nit - `please` is kinda weird in documentation

Our public, stable Python API includes:

> - All classes, functions, and variables that are exported at the top-level of the `dagster` package, unless they're marked experimental (more on this [below](#experimental-apis)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All classes, functions, and variables that are exported at the top-level of the `dagster` package, unless they're marked experimental. Refer to the [Experimental APIs section](#experimental-apis) for more info.
```

The parentheses felt a bit awkward to me - suggesting this as a more direct replacement.

- Public, non-[experimental](#experimental-apis) methods and properties of public, stable classes. Public methods and properties are those show up in the [API reference](/\_apidocs). Within the codebase, they're marked with a `@public` decorator.

### Experimental APIs

The "experimental" marker allows us to offer new APIs to users and rapidly iterate based on their feedback. Experimental APIs are marked as such in the [API reference](/\_apidocs) and usually raise an <PyObject object="ExperimentalWarning" /> when used.

> Experimental APIs may change or disappear within any release, but we try to avoid breaking them in dot releases if they have been around for a long time.

Reviewer: I like this change. Should we specify what we mean by a dot release, though?

### Deprecated APIs

The "deprecated" marker indicates that we recommend avoiding an API, usually because there's a preferred option that should be used instead.

Like non-deprecated public stable APIs, deprecated public stable APIs will not break within any major release after 1.0.

## Dagster integration libraries

> Dagster's integration libraries are still in the 0.y.z of [SemVer](https://semver.org/). While technically this is "anything goes", we are conservative about making changes and provide guidance about when to expect breaking changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagster's integration libraries are in the 0.y.z of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). While technically this is "anything goes", we are conservative about making changes and provide guidance about when to expect breaking changes:
```

- Is `still` necessary?
-`SemVer` > `Semantic Versioning`

Author: 👍

> - Upgrading to a new dot version within a minor release, e.g. 0.8.1 → 0.8.2, should never result in broken code.

Reviewer: > Upgrading to a new dot version within a minor release

Should `dot` be `patch`? I'm familiar with versioning, just never heard it referred to this way.

Author: I prefer `dot` in this context, because `patch` implies the release is just fixing bugs, which is not really how we use them.

Reviewer: Fair enough!

> - An exception to the above is "experimental" APIs, as [described above](#experimental-apis).

Reviewer: Using `above` here is kinda awkward - rephrase?

Author: 👍

> ## Dagster integration libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Dagster integration libraries
```

[1]

> - As often as possible, deprecation warnings will precede removals. E.g. if we’re currently on version 0.8.5, and we wish to remove an API, we’ll start issuing a deprecation warning when the API is used, and then we'll omit it from 0.9.0.

Reviewer: > when the API is used

Meaning the API will return a deprecation warning?

Author: Python has a "warnings" feature: https://docs.python.org/3/library/warnings.html. I'll link it from here and try to disambiguate from other uses of warning in this doc.

Reviewer: Gotcha. I think this guy could be improved for clarity, so I wanted to know what the user should expect to happen so it could be included:

> E.g. if we’re currently on version 0.8.5, and we wish to remove an API, we’ll start issuing a deprecation warning when the API is used, and then we'll omit it from 0.9.0.

Maybe something like:

> E.g. If the current version is 0.8.5 and we want to remove an API, we'll issue a deprecation warning when the API is used and remove it from 0.9.0.

- Upgrading to a new minor version, e.g. 0.7.5 → 0.8.0 may result in breakages or new deprecation [warnings](https://docs.python.org/3/library/warnings.html).

> ## Following Along

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Following along
```

[1]

And making heading capitalization consistent

> The best way to stay on top of what changes are included in each release is through the [changelog](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/CHANGES.md). We call out breaking changes in “Breaking Changes” sections and deprecations in “Deprecations” sections.

Reviewer: Should the changelog link go to https://docs.dagster.io/changelog?

Author: 👍
